Add docs for CompositePodGroup (#56248)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/gang-scheduling.md

   Instead, they are moved to the unschedulable queue to wait for cluster resources to free up,
   allowing other workloads to be scheduled in the meantime.

## Hierarchical gang scheduling with CompositePodGroups

{{< feature-state feature_gate_name="CompositePodGroup" >}}

When the [`CompositePodGroup`](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/#CompositePodGroup)
feature gate and the `scheduling.k8s.io/v1alpha3` {{< glossary_tooltip text="API group" term_id="api-group" >}}
are enabled, gang scheduling extends to multi-level group hierarchies.

While single-level gang scheduling enforces all-or-nothing semantics across Pods in a single
`PodGroup`, hierarchical gang scheduling treats entire child groups as members of a gang.

### How multi-level gang scheduling works

1. **Composite gang policy**: A parent `CompositePodGroup` defines a `gang` policy with a
   `minGroupCount` field, specifying the minimum number of child groups (either `CompositePodGroup`

>    or `PodGroup` objects) that must be schedulable simultaneously.

Reviewer: `that must be scheduled simultaneously`?

Author: Reworded this section substantially, so I think it's obsolete.

2. **Hierarchical quorum evaluation**:
   - The scheduler holds Pods in `PreEnqueue` until the entire group hierarchy exists and

>      each `PodGroup` meets its `minCount` Pod requirement.

Reviewer: This sentence sound like those pods already need to be scheduled? Maybe something "and for each `PodGroup` at least `minCount` pods exist"?

Author: Reworded.

   - During the scheduling cycle, the scheduler recursively evaluates feasibility across the group

>      tree. A parent `CompositePodGroup` is admitted only if at least `minGroupCount` of its child

Reviewer: this `parent` is superfluous here in my opinion.

Author: Dropped.

     groups satisfy their respective scheduling policies and placement constraints.

> 3. **Atomic group admission**: If the `minGroupCount` constraint is met at the composite level

Reviewer: So in the point above you defined how feasibility for single CompositePodGroup is defined. I do not think that you need to repeat it here. I would rather emphasize that this has to be met on the root level, right?

Author: Reworded the notion of admissibility to be more precise and emphasized that it must be met at the root level.

   Instead, they are moved to the unschedulable queue to wait for cluster resources to free up,
   allowing other workloads to be scheduled in the meantime.

## Hierarchical gang scheduling with CompositePodGroups

{{< feature-state feature_gate_name="CompositePodGroup" >}}

When the [`CompositePodGroup`](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/#CompositePodGroup)
feature gate and the `scheduling.k8s.io/v1alpha3` {{< glossary_tooltip text="API group" term_id="api-group" >}}
are enabled, gang scheduling extends to multi-level group hierarchies.

While single-level gang scheduling enforces all-or-nothing semantics across Pods in a single
`PodGroup`, hierarchical gang scheduling treats entire child groups as members of a gang.

### How multi-level gang scheduling works

1. **Composite gang policy**: A `CompositePodGroup` defines a `gang` policy with a `minGroupCount`
   field, specifying the minimum number of child groups (either `CompositePodGroup` or `PodGroup`
   objects) that must be admissible for the group to be admitted.

> 2. **Hierarchical quorum evaluation and queue admission**:

Reviewer 2: This describes the gang-of-gangs which is only of the the scenarios that CPG brought support for. I guess we should also cover here set of gangs and at least document the semantics for "gang of basics / basic with child gangs" - how does it work (i.e. that basic is essentially MinCount=1).

Ideally, we would also back each scenario by an example - we have them in KEP.  For example: gang of gangs - replicated training, set of gangs - inference

Author: Added description of the basic policy and the sample workload types for which the particular policies might be useful.

   Instead, they are moved to the unschedulable queue to wait for cluster resources to free up,
   allowing other workloads to be scheduled in the meantime.

## Hierarchical gang scheduling with CompositePodGroups

{{< feature-state feature_gate_name="CompositePodGroup" >}}

When the [`CompositePodGroup`](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/#CompositePodGroup)
feature gate and the `scheduling.k8s.io/v1alpha3` {{< glossary_tooltip text="API group" term_id="api-group" >}}
are enabled, gang scheduling extends its support to `CompositePodGroups`.

Contrary to `PodGroups` that group Pods, `CompositePodGroups` group child groups together - either
`PodGroups` or other `CompositePodGroups`. `CompositePodGroup` specifies a scheduling policy that
applies to its child groups during scheduling:

* `gang` policy with a `minGroupCount` field, specifying the minimum number of child groups (either
  `CompositePodGroup` or `PodGroup` objects) that must be scheduled together as a single unit
  atomically.
* `basic` policy which indicates that child groups can be scheduled independently.

>   - This is equivalent to a `gang` policy with the `minGroupCount` field set to `1`.

Reviewer 3: I wouldn't mention the equivalence in the docs as it may change and doesn't bring that much value anyway. Let's keep these two policies logically separate, at least from a high level angle

Reviewer 2: +1. I think we already have plans to make them work differently, e.g. for already scheduled PGs with basic we want to prefer binding over preemption vs  for gangs we want to do otherwise.

Author: Done.

`gang` policy is useful for multi-component workloads that require all-or-nothing scheduling across
multiple child groups, ensuring that a minimum number of child groups are scheduled together.

`basic` policy can be used for workloads that comprise multiple groups of Pods each of which can be
scheduled as an independent gang.

### Hierarchical quorum

The `GangScheduling` plugin holds the root `CompositePodGroup` from entering the active scheduling queue
in the `PreEnqueue` phase until it satisfies the hierarchical quorum. Group admissibility is
evaluated recursively from leaf `PodGroup` objects up to the root `CompositePodGroup`:

- A leaf `PodGroup` is **admissible** if and only if the `PodGroup` object exists and at least

>   `minCount` of its constituent Pods have been created.

Reviewer 3: What about a case where the root is admissible, but one child PodGroup is not? Such PodGroup would still be admitted, but not scheduled.

Author: Discussed offline and agreed "admissible" is a slightly unfortunate wording resulting in ambiguous meaning.

Revamped the section to use the "quorum satisfaction" term instead.

`gang` policy is useful for multi-component workloads that require all-or-nothing scheduling across
multiple child groups, ensuring that a minimum number of child groups are scheduled together. An
example workload with such needs is replicated AI training.

`basic` policy can be used for workloads that comprise multiple groups of Pods each of which can be
scheduled as an independent gang, e.g. for AI inference workloads.

### Hierarchical quorum

The `GangScheduling` plugin holds the root `CompositePodGroup` from entering the active scheduling queue
in the `PreEnqueue` phase until it satisfies the hierarchical quorum. Group admissibility is
evaluated recursively from leaf `PodGroup` objects up to the root `CompositePodGroup`:

- A leaf `PodGroup` is **admissible** if and only if the `PodGroup` object exists and at least
  `minCount` of its constituent Pods have been created.
- A child `CompositePodGroup` is **admissible** if and only if the `CompositePodGroup` object
  exists and at least `minGroupCount` of its direct child groups are admissible.
- The overall **hierarchical quorum** is satisfied if and only if the root `CompositePodGroup`

>   is admissible (that is, it exists and has at least `minGroupCount` admissible child groups).

Reviewer 2: NIT: It can be of Basic type where minGroupCount doesn't exist

Author: Obsolete after revamping this section.

`PodGroups` or other `CompositePodGroups`. `CompositePodGroup` specifies a scheduling policy that
applies to its child groups during scheduling:

* `gang` policy with a `minGroupCount` field, specifying the minimum number of child groups (either
  `CompositePodGroup` or `PodGroup` objects) that must be scheduled together as a single unit
  atomically.
* `basic` policy which indicates that child groups can be scheduled independently.

`gang` policy is useful for multi-component workloads that require all-or-nothing scheduling across
multiple child groups, ensuring that a minimum number of child groups are scheduled together. An
example workload with such needs is replicated AI training.

`basic` policy can be used for workloads that comprise multiple groups of Pods each of which can be
scheduled as an independent gang, e.g. for AI inference workloads.

### Hierarchical quorum

The `GangScheduling` plugin holds the root `CompositePodGroup` from entering the active scheduling
queue in the `PreEnqueue` phase until it satisfies the **hierarchical quorum**. This quorum is
evaluated bottom-up, from leaf `PodGroup` objects up to the root `CompositePodGroup`:

> - A leaf `PodGroup` **satisfies quorum** if and only if the `PodGroup` object exists and meets its

Reviewer: Nit: 
```suggestion
- A leaf `PodGroup` **satisfies quorum** if and only if the `PodGroup` object exists and can potentialy meet its
```
We do not know where it will meet the scheduling criteria but we know that it might potentially do.

Author: Done.
